README.md, before:

Apache Kafka
=================
See our [web site](http://kafka.apache.org) for details on the project.

You need to have [Gradle](http://www.gradle.org/installation) and [Java](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) installed.

Kafka requires Gradle 3.0 or higher.

Java 7 should be used for building in order to support both Java 7 and Java 8 at runtime.

### First bootstrap and download the wrapper ###
    cd kafka_source_dir
    gradle

Now everything else will work.

### Build a jar and run it ###
    ./gradlew jar

Follow instructions in http://kafka.apache.org/documentation.html#quickstart

### Build source jar ###
    ./gradlew srcJar

### Build aggregated javadoc ###
    ./gradlew aggregatedJavadoc

### Build javadoc and scaladoc ###
    ./gradlew javadoc
    ./gradlew javadocJar # builds a javadoc jar for each module
    ./gradlew scaladoc
    ./gradlew scaladocJar # builds a scaladoc jar for each module
    ./gradlew docsJar # builds both (if applicable) javadoc and scaladoc jars for each module

### Run unit/integration tests ###
    ./gradlew test # runs both unit and integration tests
    ./gradlew unitTest
    ./gradlew integrationTest
    
### Force re-running tests without code change ###
    ./gradlew cleanTest test
    ./gradlew cleanTest unitTest
    ./gradlew cleanTest integrationTest

### Running a particular unit/integration test ###
    ./gradlew -Dtest.single=RequestResponseSerializationTest core:test

### Running a particular test method within a unit/integration test ###
    ./gradlew core:test --tests kafka.api.ProducerFailureHandlingTest.testCannotSendToInternalTopic
    ./gradlew clients:test --tests org.apache.kafka.clients.MetadataTest.testMetadataUpdateWaitTime

### Running a particular unit/integration test with log4j output ###
Change the log4j setting in either `clients/src/test/resources/log4j.properties` or `core/src/test/resources/log4j.properties`

    ./gradlew -i -Dtest.single=RequestResponseSerializationTest core:test

### Generating test coverage reports ###
Generate coverage reports for the whole project:

    ./gradlew reportCoverage

Generate coverage for a single module, i.e.: 

    ./gradlew clients:reportCoverage
    
### Building a binary release gzipped tar ball ###
    ./gradlew clean
    ./gradlew releaseTarGz

The above command will fail if you haven't set up the signing key. To bypass signing the artifact, you can run:

    ./gradlew releaseTarGz -x signArchives

The release file can be found inside `./core/build/distributions/`.

### Cleaning the build ###
    ./gradlew clean

### Running a task on a particular version of Scala (either 2.11.x or 2.12.x) ###
*Note that if building the jars with a version other than 2.11.12, you need to set the `SCALA_VERSION` variable or change it in `bin/kafka-run-class.sh` to run the quick start.*

You can pass either the major version (eg 2.11) or the full version (eg 2.11.12):

    ./gradlew -PscalaVersion=2.11 jar
    ./gradlew -PscalaVersion=2.11 test
    ./gradlew -PscalaVersion=2.11 releaseTarGz

Scala 2.12.x requires Java 8.

### Running a task for a specific project ###
This is for `core`, `examples` and `clients`

    ./gradlew core:jar
    ./gradlew core:test

### Listing all gradle tasks ###
    ./gradlew tasks

### Building IDE project ####
*Note that this is not strictly necessary (IntelliJ IDEA has good built-in support for Gradle projects, for example).*

    ./gradlew eclipse
    ./gradlew idea

The `eclipse` task has been configured to use `${project_dir}/build_eclipse` as Eclipse's build directory. Eclipse's default
build directory (`${project_dir}/bin`) clashes with Kafka's scripts directory and we don't use Gradle's build directory
to avoid known issues with this configuration.

### Building the jar for all scala versions and for all projects ###
    ./gradlew jarAll

### Running unit/integration tests for all scala versions and for all projects ###
    ./gradlew testAll

### Building a binary release gzipped tar ball for all scala versions ###
    ./gradlew releaseTarGzAll

### Publishing the jar for all version of Scala and for all projects to maven ###
    ./gradlew uploadArchivesAll

Please note for this to work you should create/update `${GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle.properties` (typically, `~/.gradle/gradle.properties`) and assign the following variables

    mavenUrl=
    mavenUsername=
    mavenPassword=
    signing.keyId=
    signing.password=
    signing.secretKeyRingFile=

### Publishing the streams quickstart archetype artifact to maven ###
For the Streams archetype project, one cannot use gradle to upload to maven; instead the `mvn deploy` command needs to be called at the quickstart folder:

    cd streams/quickstart
    mvn deploy

Please note for this to work you should create/update user maven settings (typically, `${USER_HOME}/.m2/settings.xml`) to assign the following variables

    <settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                           https://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">
    ...                           
    <servers>
       ...
       <server>
          <id>apache.snapshots.https</id>
          <username>${maven_username}</username>
          <password>${maven_password}</password>
       </server>
       <server>
          <id>apache.releases.https</id>
          <username>${maven_username}</username>
          <password>${maven_password}</password>
        </server>
        ...
     </servers>
     ...


### Installing the jars to the local Maven repository ###
    ./gradlew installAll

### Building the test jar ###
    ./gradlew testJar

### Determining how transitive dependencies are added ###
    ./gradlew core:dependencies --configuration runtime

### Determining if any dependencies could be updated ###
    ./gradlew dependencyUpdates

### Running code quality checks ###
There are two code quality analysis tools that we regularly run, findbugs and checkstyle.

#### Checkstyle ####
Checkstyle enforces a consistent coding style in Kafka.
You can run checkstyle using:

    ./gradlew checkstyleMain checkstyleTest

The checkstyle warnings will be found in `reports/checkstyle/reports/main.html` and `reports/checkstyle/reports/test.html` files in the
subproject build directories. They are also are printed to the console. The build will fail if Checkstyle fails.

#### Findbugs ####
Findbugs uses static analysis to look for bugs in the code.
You can run findbugs using:

    ./gradlew findbugsMain findbugsTest -x test

The findbugs warnings will be found in `reports/findbugs/main.html` and `reports/findbugs/test.html` files in the subproject build
directories.  Use -PxmlFindBugsReport=true to generate an XML report instead of an HTML one.

### Common build options ###

The following options should be set with a `-P` switch, for example `./gradlew -PmaxParallelForks=1 test`.

* `commitId`: sets the build commit ID as .git/HEAD might not be correct if there are local commits added for build purposes.
* `mavenUrl`: sets the URL of the maven deployment repository (`file://path/to/repo` can be used to point to a local repository).
* `maxParallelForks`: limits the maximum number of processes for each task.
* `showStandardStreams`: shows standard out and standard error of the test JVM(s) on the console.
* `skipSigning`: skips signing of artifacts.
* `testLoggingEvents`: unit test events to be logged, separated by comma. For example `./gradlew -PtestLoggingEvents=started,passed,skipped,failed test`.
* `xmlFindBugsReport`: enable XML reports for findBugs. This also disables HTML reports as only one can be enabled at a time.

### Running in Vagrant ###

See [vagrant/README.md](vagrant/README.md).

### Contribution ###

Apache Kafka is interested in building the community; we would welcome any thoughts or [patches](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/KAFKA). You can reach us [on the Apache mailing lists](http://kafka.apache.org/contact.html).

To contribute follow the instructions here:
 * http://kafka.apache.org/contributing.html

Commit message:

KAFKA-6428: Generate findbugs output for CI and fail builds for 'high' level warnings

README.md, after:

Apache Kafka
=================
See our [web site](http://kafka.apache.org) for details on the project.

You need to have [Gradle](http://www.gradle.org/installation) and [Java](http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html) installed.

Kafka requires Gradle 3.0 or higher.

Java 7 should be used for building in order to support both Java 7 and Java 8 at runtime.

### First bootstrap and download the wrapper ###
    cd kafka_source_dir
    gradle

Now everything else will work.

### Build a jar and run it ###
    ./gradlew jar

Follow instructions in http://kafka.apache.org/documentation.html#quickstart

### Build source jar ###
    ./gradlew srcJar

### Build aggregated javadoc ###
    ./gradlew aggregatedJavadoc

### Build javadoc and scaladoc ###
    ./gradlew javadoc
    ./gradlew javadocJar # builds a javadoc jar for each module
    ./gradlew scaladoc
    ./gradlew scaladocJar # builds a scaladoc jar for each module
    ./gradlew docsJar # builds both (if applicable) javadoc and scaladoc jars for each module

### Run unit/integration tests ###
    ./gradlew test # runs both unit and integration tests
    ./gradlew unitTest
    ./gradlew integrationTest
    
### Force re-running tests without code change ###
    ./gradlew cleanTest test
    ./gradlew cleanTest unitTest
    ./gradlew cleanTest integrationTest

### Running a particular unit/integration test ###
    ./gradlew -Dtest.single=RequestResponseSerializationTest core:test

### Running a particular test method within a unit/integration test ###
    ./gradlew core:test --tests kafka.api.ProducerFailureHandlingTest.testCannotSendToInternalTopic
    ./gradlew clients:test --tests org.apache.kafka.clients.MetadataTest.testMetadataUpdateWaitTime

### Running a particular unit/integration test with log4j output ###
Change the log4j setting in either `clients/src/test/resources/log4j.properties` or `core/src/test/resources/log4j.properties`

    ./gradlew -i -Dtest.single=RequestResponseSerializationTest core:test

### Generating test coverage reports ###
Generate coverage reports for the whole project:

    ./gradlew reportCoverage

Generate coverage for a single module, i.e.: 

    ./gradlew clients:reportCoverage
    
### Building a binary release gzipped tar ball ###
    ./gradlew clean
    ./gradlew releaseTarGz

The above command will fail if you haven't set up the signing key. To bypass signing the artifact, you can run:

    ./gradlew releaseTarGz -x signArchives

The release file can be found inside `./core/build/distributions/`.

### Cleaning the build ###
    ./gradlew clean

### Running a task on a particular version of Scala (either 2.11.x or 2.12.x) ###
*Note that if building the jars with a version other than 2.11.12, you need to set the `SCALA_VERSION` variable or change it in `bin/kafka-run-class.sh` to run the quick start.*

You can pass either the major version (eg 2.11) or the full version (eg 2.11.12):

    ./gradlew -PscalaVersion=2.11 jar
    ./gradlew -PscalaVersion=2.11 test
    ./gradlew -PscalaVersion=2.11 releaseTarGz

Scala 2.12.x requires Java 8.

### Running a task for a specific project ###
This is for `core`, `examples` and `clients`

    ./gradlew core:jar
    ./gradlew core:test

### Listing all gradle tasks ###
    ./gradlew tasks

### Building IDE project ####
*Note that this is not strictly necessary (IntelliJ IDEA has good built-in support for Gradle projects, for example).*

    ./gradlew eclipse
    ./gradlew idea

The `eclipse` task has been configured to use `${project_dir}/build_eclipse` as Eclipse's build directory. Eclipse's default
build directory (`${project_dir}/bin`) clashes with Kafka's scripts directory and we don't use Gradle's build directory
to avoid known issues with this configuration.

### Building the jar for all scala versions and for all projects ###
    ./gradlew jarAll

### Running unit/integration tests for all scala versions and for all projects ###
    ./gradlew testAll

### Building a binary release gzipped tar ball for all scala versions ###
    ./gradlew releaseTarGzAll

### Publishing the jar for all version of Scala and for all projects to maven ###
    ./gradlew uploadArchivesAll

Please note for this to work you should create/update `${GRADLE_USER_HOME}/gradle.properties` (typically, `~/.gradle/gradle.properties`) and assign the following variables

    mavenUrl=
    mavenUsername=
    mavenPassword=
    signing.keyId=
    signing.password=
    signing.secretKeyRingFile=

### Publishing the streams quickstart archetype artifact to maven ###
For the Streams archetype project, one cannot use gradle to upload to maven; instead the `mvn deploy` command needs to be called at the quickstart folder:

    cd streams/quickstart
    mvn deploy

Please note for this to work you should create/update user maven settings (typically, `${USER_HOME}/.m2/settings.xml`) to assign the following variables

    <settings xmlns="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xsi:schemaLocation="http://maven.apache.org/SETTINGS/1.0.0
                           https://maven.apache.org/xsd/settings-1.0.0.xsd">
    ...                           
    <servers>
       ...
       <server>
          <id>apache.snapshots.https</id>
          <username>${maven_username}</username>
          <password>${maven_password}</password>
       </server>
       <server>
          <id>apache.releases.https</id>
          <username>${maven_username}</username>
          <password>${maven_password}</password>
        </server>
        ...
     </servers>
     ...


### Installing the jars to the local Maven repository ###
    ./gradlew installAll

### Building the test jar ###
    ./gradlew testJar

### Determining how transitive dependencies are added ###
    ./gradlew core:dependencies --configuration runtime

### Determining if any dependencies could be updated ###
    ./gradlew dependencyUpdates

### Running code quality checks ###
There are two code quality analysis tools that we regularly run, findbugs and checkstyle.

#### Checkstyle ####
Checkstyle enforces a consistent coding style in Kafka.
You can run checkstyle using:

    ./gradlew checkstyleMain checkstyleTest

The checkstyle warnings will be found in `reports/checkstyle/reports/main.html` and `reports/checkstyle/reports/test.html` files in the
subproject build directories. They are also are printed to the console. The build will fail if Checkstyle fails.

#### Findbugs ####
Findbugs uses static analysis to look for bugs in the code. Findbugs is executed as part of the normal build process
and will be included in CI testing. Normally xml reports are generated which are not very human readable unless processed
by Jenkins. If you want to use check Findbugs results during development, run it so it generates HTML output:

You can run findbugs using:

    ./gradlew findbugsMain findbugsTest -x test -PhtmlFindBugsReport=true

The findbugs warnings will be found in `reports/findbugs/main.html` and `reports/findbugs/test.html` files in the subproject build
directories.

### Common build options ###

The following options should be set with a `-P` switch, for example `./gradlew -PmaxParallelForks=1 test`.

* `commitId`: sets the build commit ID as .git/HEAD might not be correct if there are local commits added for build purposes.
* `mavenUrl`: sets the URL of the maven deployment repository (`file://path/to/repo` can be used to point to a local repository).
* `maxParallelForks`: limits the maximum number of processes for each task.
* `showStandardStreams`: shows standard out and standard error of the test JVM(s) on the console.
* `skipSigning`: skips signing of artifacts.
* `testLoggingEvents`: unit test events to be logged, separated by comma. For example `./gradlew -PtestLoggingEvents=started,passed,skipped,failed test`.
* `xmlFindBugsReport`: enable XML reports for findBugs. This also disables HTML reports as only one can be enabled at a time.

### Running in Vagrant ###

See [vagrant/README.md](vagrant/README.md).

### Contribution ###

Apache Kafka is interested in building the community; we would welcome any thoughts or [patches](https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/KAFKA). You can reach us [on the Apache mailing lists](http://kafka.apache.org/contact.html).

To contribute follow the instructions here:
 * http://kafka.apache.org/contributing.html
